# Theory 

Hierarchical clustering is a method of cluster analysis which seeks to build a hierarchy of clusters. It's often visualized using a dendrogram, which shows the arrangement of the clusters produced by the corresponding analysis. 

- Key Concepts: 

Cluster: A group of similar objects. 

Agglomerative (Bottom-Up) Approach: Each object starts in its own cluster, and pairs of clusters are merged as one moves up the hierarchy. 

Divisive (Top-Down) Approach: All objects start in one cluster, and splits are performed recursively as one moves down the hierarchy. 

- Process (Agglomerative): 

Start with each data point as a single cluster. 

Calculate the distance between every pair of clusters (distance matrix). 

Merge the two closest clusters. 

Update the distance matrix. 

 

Standard calculation of distance between clusters: ward 

Standard calculation of distance between points: euclidean 

 

# Clustering 

 

- Data Preparation 

from scipy.cluster.hierarchy import linkage, dendrogram 

from sklearn.cluster import AgglomerativeClustering 

- Visualize the clusters with a dendrogram 

```python

linkage_matrix = linkage(data, method='ward') 

dendrogram_info = dendrogram(linkage_matrix, color_threshold=X) 

  

plt.title("Hierarchical Clustering Dendrogram") 

plt.xlabel("Data Points") 

plt.ylabel("Euclidean Distance"); 

 

# X is the number that will determin the number of clusters (Y)  

## based on the euclidean Distance 

``` 

 

- Fit the Agglomerative cluestring model 

```python

agg = AgglomerativeClustering(Y) 

agg.fit(data) 

agg.labels_ 

``` 

 

- Visualize and categorize 

Count the number of data points in each category 

```python

agg.labels_ 

Counter(agg.labels_) 

``` 

Visualize the cluster map 

```python

clustermap = sns.clustermap(data, method='ward', cmap='RdBu', figsize=(8, 6), xticklabels=data.columns) 

plt.show() 

``` 

Categorize the clusters 

- Tune the model 

Drop columns 

Scale the data 

Engineer features, etc 

 

Visualize the clusters with a dendrogram 

Fit the Agglomerative cluestring model 

Visualize and categorize 

 

- Select the best model 